example/image-segmentation/README.md, before:

Image Segmentation
======

Image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels). The goal of segmentation is to simplify and/or change the representation of an image into something that is more meaningful and easier to analyze.

In these examples, we will use Starwhale to evaluate a set of image segmentation models.

What we learn
------

- use the `@Starwhale.predict` and `@Starwhale.evaluate` decorators to define handlers for Starwhale Model to finish the image segmentation evaluation tasks.
- build Starwhale Dataset by Starwhale Python SDK and use Starwhale Dataset Web Viewer.
- use Starwhale Evaluation Summary Page to compare the algorithm quality of the different models.
- build an unified Starwhale Runtime to run all models.
- use Starwhale `replicas` feature to speedup model evaluation.
- use `Starwhale.Image`, `Starwhale.COCOObjectAnnotation` and `Starwhale.BoundingBox` to represent Dataset type.

Models
------

- [Segment Anything Model](https://segment-anything.com/)
- [GrabCut](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/d8/d83/tutorial_py_grabcut.html)
- [PSPNet](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models)
- [FCN](https://pytorch.org/vision/main/models/fcn.html)
- [SAN](https://github.com/MendelXu/SAN)

Datasets
------

We will use the following datasets to evaluate models.

- [PASCAL VOC](http://host.robots.ox.ac.uk/pascal/VOC/)

  - Introduction: The dataset contains 20 object categories including vehicles, household, animals and others. Each image in this dataset has pixel-level segmentation annotations, bounding box annotations, and object class annotations. This dataset has been widely used as a benchmark for object detection, semantic segmentation, and classification tasks. In this example, we will use 2012 year dataset.
  - Size: 2913 segmentation images.
  - Dataset build command: `python3 datasets/pascal_voc.py`

- [COCO 2017 Stuff](https://cocodataset.org/#stuff-2017)

  - Introduction: The COCO Stuff Segmentation Task is designed to push the state of the art in semantic segmentation of stuff classes. Whereas the object detection task addresses thing classes (person, car, elephant), this task focuses on stuff classes (grass, wall, sky).
  - Size: Validation images 5,000.
  - Dataset build command: `python3 datasets/coco_stuff.py`

Commit message:

example: support segment anything model (#2929)

example/image-segmentation/README.md, after:

Image Segmentation
======

Image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels). The goal of segmentation is to simplify and/or change the representation of an image into something that is more meaningful and easier to analyze.

In these examples, we will use Starwhale to evaluate a set of image segmentation models.

What we learn
------

- use the `@Starwhale.predict` and `@Starwhale.evaluate` decorators to define handlers for Starwhale Model to finish the image segmentation evaluation tasks.
- build Starwhale Dataset by Starwhale Python SDK and use Starwhale Dataset Web Viewer.
- use Starwhale Evaluation Summary Page to compare the algorithm quality of the different models.
- build an unified Starwhale Runtime to run all models.
- use Starwhale `replicas` feature to speedup model evaluation.
- use `Starwhale.Image`, `Starwhale.COCOObjectAnnotation` and `Starwhale.BoundingBox` to represent Dataset type.
- use `.swignore` file to ignore unexpected files or folders in the Starwhale Model building.
- use Starwhale Online Evaluation.
- use `Starwhale.Evaluation` SDK to log evaluation metrics into the user custom tables.

Models
------

- [Segment Anything Model](https://segment-anything.com/)
- [GrabCut](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/d8/d83/tutorial_py_grabcut.html)
- [PSPNet](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models)
- [FCN](https://pytorch.org/vision/main/models/fcn.html)
- [SAN](https://github.com/MendelXu/SAN)

Datasets
------

We will use the following datasets to evaluate models.

- [PASCAL VOC](http://host.robots.ox.ac.uk/pascal/VOC/)

  - Introduction: The dataset contains 20 object categories including vehicles, household, animals and others. Each image in this dataset has pixel-level segmentation annotations, bounding box annotations, and object class annotations. This dataset has been widely used as a benchmark for object detection, semantic segmentation, and classification tasks. In this example, we will use 2012 year dataset.
  - Size: 2913 segmentation images.
  - Dataset build command: `python3 datasets/pascal_voc.py`

- [COCO 2017 Stuff](https://cocodataset.org/#stuff-2017)

  - Introduction: The COCO Stuff Segmentation Task is designed to push the state of the art in semantic segmentation of stuff classes. Whereas the object detection task addresses thing classes (person, car, elephant), this task focuses on stuff classes (grass, wall, sky).
  - Size: Validation images 5,000.
  - Dataset build command: `python3 datasets/coco_stuff.py`
